---
title: Creating a basic http server in Java using only Java standard edition api
authors:
- nanja_dev
tags:
- java
- knowledge
thumbnail: images/java.png
created_at: 2023-04-15 00:00:00
updated_at: 2023-04-15 00:00:00
tldr: A simple HTTP server in Java can be created using the java.net.ServerSocket and java.net.Socket classes from the Java SE API.
---

**Contents**

[TOC]

####Overview
A simple HTTP server in Java can be created using only the Java SE API. It is possible to create a basic server that can receive and respond to HTTP requests. This server can be used to serve static content such as HTML and image files as well as dynamic content generated by servlets.

####Creating a Server
The first step in creating a simple HTTP server in Java is to create a ServerSocket. This is done by calling the ServerSocket constructor with the port number that the server will listen on. The server can then be started by calling the accept() method on the ServerSocket, which will listen for incoming connections.

####Handling Requests
Once a connection is established, the server can read the request using an InputStream. The request will be in the form of an HTTP request, which contains the request method, the requested resource, and any additional parameters. The server can then process the request and generate a response.

####Responding to Requests
The server can generate a response by constructing an HTTP response message. This response message will contain the status code, any headers, and the response body. The response body can either be static content such as HTML or image files, or dynamic content generated by servlets. The response can then be written to the OutputStream of the connection and the connection can be closed.
