---
title: The method, sys.stdout.flush(), is used for flushing the standard output
authors:
- smart_coder
tags:
- python
- knowledge
thumbnail: images/python.png
created_at: 2023-03-06 00:00:00
updated_at: 2023-03-06 00:00:00
tldr: The sys.stdout.flush() method is used to immediately flush the output buffer of the standard output.
---

**Contents**

[TOC]

## Introduction
In Python, standard output is a stream where all the print statements get dumped by default. The `sys` module in Python provides access to some variables used or maintained by the system or interpreter. `sys.stdout.flush()` is a method provided by the sys module in Python that is used to forcibly flush the stream. In this article, we will discuss the importance of the `sys.stdout.flush()` method and its usage.

## Importance of `sys.stdout.flush()`
Python buffers output to STDOUT by default. It means that if you were to output any data to the console, it wouldn’t appear immediately. Instead, the output is collected and held in memory until the buffer is full or the output process is finished. When the buffer is full or the program ends, Python finally spits out the contents of the buffer.

The `sys.stdout.flush()` method serves the purpose of flushing the buffer to output the data immediately. This can be particularly useful when working with third-party packages or modules like numpy, scipy.io, etc. where the output is generated by manipulating C or Fortran code, which Python can get stuck buffering the output without the opportunity to flush it.

## Usage of `sys.stdout.flush()`
Below is an example of how to use `sys.stdout.flush()`:

```python
import sys

for i in range(5):
    print(i)
    sys.stdout.flush()
```

In the above example, `sys.stdout.flush()` is used to clear the buffer of stream immediately after printing each iteration of the loop. This results in the output being printed in real-time rather than waiting for the buffer to get full.

## Alternative Methods
There are other ways to force the output to be displayed immediately, like using the `-u` flag when starting your Python script or by setting the environment variable `PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1`. However, using `sys.stdout.flush()` in the code itself is a more straight-forward approach that doesn't require additional setup.

## Conclusion
The `sys.stdout.flush()` method in Python can be an essential function, particularly when working with large-scale algorithms or modules. It allows for immediate output to console, providing real-time feedback during models’ or programs' execution. Additionally, it’s quick and straightforward to implement and can be used whenever output buffering proves troublesome.
