---
title: What is the process of compiling a visual studio project using the command-line?
authors:
- smart_coder
tags:
- python
- knowledge
thumbnail: images/python.png
created_at: 2023-03-13 00:00:00
updated_at: 2023-03-13 00:00:00
tldr: You can use the subprocess module in Python to call the `msbuild` command with the appropriate arguments to compile a Visual Studio project from the command-line.
---

**Contents**

[TOC]

# Overview

Compiling a Visual Studio project from the command-line in Python involves several steps. In this answer, we will outline the basic steps to achieve this goal.

## Step 1: Locate Visual Studio command line tools

Firstly, you need to ensure that you have the Visual Studio command-line tools installed on your computer. If not, you can download and install them from the Visual Studio website.

Once you have installed the tools, you need to locate the "vcvarsall.bat" batch file. This file contains the necessary environment variables and settings required to compile Visual Studio projects from the command line.

The location of this file may vary depending on your Visual Studio installation. However, it should typically be located in the following directories:

- Visual Studio 2017: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2017\Community\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvarsall.bat`
- Visual Studio 2019: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvarsall.bat`


## Step 2: Set environment variables

You need to set the environment variables to point to the correct locations of your project files, the compiler, libraries, and other resources.

You can do this by calling the "vcvarsall.bat" batch file with the appropriate arguments to set up the environment variables. For example, to set up the environment for building 64-bit applications using Visual Studio 2017, you can use the following command:

```
call "C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2017\Community\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvarsall.bat" x64
```

## Step 3: Compile the project

Once you have set up the environment, you can compile the project using the appropriate build tool. For example, if you have a C++ project, you can use the "cl.exe" compiler to build the project.

The following command can be used to compile a C++ source file:

```
cl.exe /c /EHsc myfile.cpp
```

## Step 4: Link the project

After you have compiled your project, you need to link the object files generated by the compiler to create the final executable or library file.

You can use the "link.exe" tool to perform the linking process. For example, to link a C++ project and create an executable file, you can use the following command:

```
link.exe /OUT:myexe.exe myfile.obj
```

These are the basic steps required to compile a Visual Studio project from the command line using Python. You can automate this process by creating a Python script that executes the necessary commands.
