---
title: In heatmaps generated by seaborn, scientific notation is displayed for numerical values with three digits
authors:
- smart_coder
tags:
- python
- knowledge
thumbnail: images/python.png
created_at: 2023-03-11 00:00:00
updated_at: 2023-03-11 00:00:00
tldr: To suppress scientific notation in seaborn heatmap, use the set() method with the scientific parameter set to False, i.e., sns.set(scientific=False).
---

**Contents**

[TOC]

Section 1: Overview
-------------------
Seaborn is a data visualization library for Python that is built on top of the popular library matplotlib. Seaborn provides a high-level interface for creating informative and attractive statistical graphics. One of the popular types of plot created using Seaborn is a heatmap. It is a commonly used graphical representation of data where the individual values that are contained in a matrix are represented as colors. In this tutorial, we will discuss how to show scientific notation in heatmap for 3-digit numbers in Python using Seaborn.

Section 2: Setting the context
-------------------------------
Seaborn allows you to adjust the context of the plot in terms of the color palette used, the size of the plot, and the font size used in the plot labels. To set the formatting for the heatmap plot, we can tweak these attributes. Here is an example code snippet to set the context:

``` python
import seaborn as sns                                   
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 

sns.set_context("talk")
```

In this example, we use the set_context() method to specify the context for the plot. We set it to the “talk” context, which is one of the larger contexts of Seaborn.

Section 3: Show scientific notation
-----------------------------------
By default, Seaborn shows scientific notation for large numbers in the heatmap plot. However, if you want to show scientific notation for only 3-digit numbers, for example, you must use the “formatter” parameter of the heatmap() function. Here is an example code snippet to show scientific notation for 3-digit numbers only:

``` python
import seaborn as sns                                  
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt   
import numpy as np                                        

data = np.array([[100, 200, 300], [400, 500, 600], [700, 800, 900]]) 

sns.heatmap(data, cmap='coolwarm',fmt=".0f", annot=True) 
```

In this example, we use the “fmt” parameter of the heatmap() function to specify a format string for the annotating values in the heatmap. We set it to “.0f” to show zero decimal points for floating-point numbers and to avoid scientific notation for the 3-digit numbers in the heatmap.

Section 4: Conclusion
----------------------
This brings us to the end of this tutorial on how to show scientific notation in heatmap for 3-digit numbers in Python using Seaborn. We hope this will help you create more informative and attractive visualizations for your data using Seaborn.
