---
title: Transform the generator object into a list for the purposes of debugging
authors:
- smart_coder
tags:
- python
- knowledge
thumbnail: images/python.png
created_at: 2023-03-13 00:00:00
updated_at: 2023-03-13 00:00:00
tldr: You can convert a generator object to a list by passing it as an argument to the list() function.
---

**Contents**

[TOC]

1. Generator Object
A generator object in Python is an iterator that generates a stream of values on the fly. It is like a recipe for creating values, rather than a list of already generated values. To create a generator, we use the yield keyword in a function.

2. Debugging Generator Object
While debugging a program, it can be useful to see the values generated by a generator object. One way to do this is to convert the generator object to a list. This will force the generator to generate all the values and store them in memory as a list.

3. Converting Generator Object to List
To convert a generator object to a list, we simply pass the generator object to the list() function. This will generate all the values and return them as a list. For example:

```
def my_generator():
    yield 1
    yield 2
    yield 3

gen = my_generator()
lst = list(gen)
print(lst)
```

Output: [1, 2, 3]

In this example, we define a generator function my_generator() that yields three values. We create a generator object gen from this function and then convert it to a list lst using list(gen). Finally, we print the list.

4. When to Convert Generator Object to List
Converting a generator object to a list can be useful for debugging, but it can also be memory-intensive if the generator generates a large number of values. In general, it is better to work with generator objects directly, unless you need to access the same values multiple times, in which case it may be more efficient to convert the generator to a list.
