---
title: The visualizations generated by seaborn are not appearing
authors:
- smart_coder
tags:
- python
- knowledge
thumbnail: images/python.png
created_at: 2023-03-05 00:00:00
updated_at: 2023-03-05 00:00:00
tldr: Use the function plt.show() after creating the plot to display it.
---

**Contents**

[TOC]

Possible Causes for Seaborn Plots Not Showing Up

1. Not importing seaborn package correctly: If the seaborn package is not imported correctly at the start of the code, then seaborn plots cannot be displayed. Ensure that seaborn is imported correctly with the following code: 
```
import seaborn as sns
```

2. Not setting the backend of the matplotlib package: Since seaborn is built on top of the matplotlib package, it requires a backend to display the plots. Ensure that the backend of matplotlib is set properly before importing seaborn with the following code: 
```
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib.inline
```
Note: `%matplotlib.inline` works for Jupyter Notebook, but might differ for other environments.

3. Not calling the function to display the plot: Seaborn plots need an explicit function call to display. Ensure that the function call is included in the code to display the plot: 
```
sns.lineplot() #for a line plot
plt.show() #to view the plot
```

4. Plot is hidden or out of sight: It is possible that the plot is being displayed but is hidden or out of sight. It is recommended to use the `plt.show()` function for all matplotlib plots to ensure that they are displayed properly in a new window. 

Solutions to Fix Seaborn Plots Not Showing Up

1. Import Seaborn Properly: Remember to correctly import the package at the start of the code.
```
import seaborn as sns
```

2. Set the Backend for Matplotlib: Ensure that the backend is set properly before importing seaborn.
```
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib.inline
```
Note: `%matplotlib.inline` works for Jupyter Notebook, but might differ for other environments.

3. Call the Function to Display the Plot: Remember to add an explicit function call to display the plot.
```
sns.lineplot() #for a line plot
plt.show() #to view the plot
```

4. Check Visibility or Output of Plot: Check to ensure that the plot is not hidden or out of sight. Use the `plt.show()` function to view the plot in a new window. 

By following one or more of these solutions, seaborn plots should display properly in Python.
