---
title: Can a .pyc file, which is already compiled, be converted back to a .py file through decompilation?
authors:
- smart_coder
tags:
- python
- knowledge
thumbnail: images/python.png
created_at: 2023-03-06 00:00:00
updated_at: 2023-03-06 00:00:00
tldr: Yes, it is possible to decompile a compiled .pyc file into a .py file in Python using decompilers like uncompyle6, pycdc, etc.
---

**Contents**

[TOC]

Yes, it is possible to decompile a compiled .pyc file into a .py file in Python using certain tools and methods.

## Tools for decompiling .pyc files

### Uncompyle6

Uncompyle6 is a Python module that decompiles .pyc files generated by Python 2.7, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, and 3.8 bytecode back into equivalent Python syntax. It can be installed via pip using the command:

```python
pip install uncompyle6
```

### PyPython

PyPython is another tool for decompiling .pyc files into equivalent Python syntax. It is based on the Python interpreter and can be run in the terminal. To use PyPython, first install the dependencies using the command:

```python
pip install git+https://github.com/vstinner/vstinner.git#egg=pypython
```

Then, to decompile a .pyc file, run the command:

```python
pypython -i mymodule.pyc
```

## Limitations of decompiling .pyc files

### Version compatibility

Decompiling .pyc files into .py files may not always result in a fully functional code, especially if the versions of Python used to compile and decompile are different. This is because changes in the Python language and syntax can affect the way the bytecode is decompiled.

### Obfuscation

Some developers use obfuscation techniques to make their code harder to reverse engineer. These techniques can make it significantly more difficult to decompile .pyc files into equivalent Python syntax.

## Conclusion

In summary, it is possible to decompile a compiled .pyc file into a .py file in Python using tools such as Uncompyle6 and PyPython. However, the resulting code may not always be fully functional due to version compatibility issues or obfuscation techniques used by the original developer.
